Atru/meta args (#692)
hashicorp/web-unified-docs: content/terraform/v1.12.x/docs/language/meta-arguments.mdx

---
page_title: Meta-arguments
description: Meta-arguments are built-in Terraform arguments that determine how Terraform creates and manages resources.
---

# Meta-arguments

> Meta-arguments are a class of arguments built into the Terraform configuration language that control how Terraform creates resources. This page provides an overview of the meta-arguments included with Terraform.

Reviewer: It's not just resources, so I feel this should be vaguer:
```suggestion
Meta-arguments are a class of arguments built into the Terraform configuration language that control how Terraform creates your infrastructure. This page provides an overview of the meta-arguments included with Terraform.
```

## Introduction

> You can use meta-arguments in any type of `resource`  block, including resources created with `data` blocks. You can also use most meta-arguments in `module` blocks.

Reviewer: You can also use meta-arguments in none-resource blocks (providers, checks, outputs, etc). Can you make this whole section more block agnostic? As in, make this more about how meta-arguments are built into the language and not defined by providers.

> You can use meta-arguments in any type of `resource`  block, including resources created with `data` blocks. You can also use most meta-arguments in `module` blocks.

Author: ```suggestion
You can use meta-arguments in any type of resource, including resources created with `data` blocks. You can also use most meta-arguments in `module` blocks.
```

The provider developer determines resource-specific arguments, but all resources support meta-arguments that let you manage resources' infrastructure lifecycle, including destruction behavior, preventing destruction, and establishing dependencies between resources. Terraform provides the following meta-arguments.

## `depends_on`

> The `depends_on` meta-argument establishes dependencies between resources that do not directly reference one another. Use the `depends_on` argument to explicitly set the order in which Terraform creates resources.

Reviewer: (Again in the vein of making this more vague)
```suggestion
The `depends_on` meta-argument establishes dependencies between blocks that do not directly reference one another. Use the `depends_on` argument to explicitly set the order in which Terraform provisions parts of your infrastructure.
```

### Tutorials

- [Create resource dependencies](/terraform/tutorials/configuration-language/dependencies)

### Examples

- [Specify a dependency during validation](/terraform/language/block/check#resource-dependency) 
- [Specify a dependency when querying a data source](/terraform/language/block/data#specify-a-dependency)
- [Specify a dependency when calling a module](/terraform/language/block/module#specify-dependencies) 
- [Specify a dependency when outputting values](/terraform/language/block/output#explicit-dependencies) 
- [Specify a dependency during resource creation](/terraform/language/block/resource#specify-a-dependency) 

### Guidance 

 - [Add dependencies](/terraform/language/data-sources#dependencies) when querying a data source

>  - [Set dependencies](/terraform/language/modules/configuration) in your module configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [Set dependencies](/terraform/language/modules/configuration#set-dependencies) in your module configuration
```

### References

- [`depends_on` argument in `check` blocks](/terraform/language/block/check#depends_on) 
- [`depends_on` argument in `data` blocks](/terraform/language/block/data#depends_on)
- [`depends_on` argument in `ephemeral` blocks](/terraform/language/block/ephemeral#depends_on)
- [`depends_on` argument in `module` blocks](/terraform/language/block/module#depends_on)
- [`depends_on` argument in `output` blocks](/terraform/language/block/output#depends_on)
- [`depends_on` argument in `resource` blocks](/terraform/language/block/resource#depends_on)

## `count`

> By default, Terraform manages one infrastructure object for each `resource` block. Terraform also creates single instances of a module per `module` block. You can use the `count` argument in `resource` and `module` blocks to create and manage multiple instances of each without writing a separate block for each instance.

Reviewer: It feels like we should also callout `ephemeral` blocks to not leave them out

### How to choose between `count` and `for_each`

> The [`for_each` meta-argument](#for_each) performs a similar function to `count`, but lets you reference different values for each instance you create. Use the `count` argument when you want to create nearly identical instances. You should use `for_each` when some instance arguments must have distinct values that can't be directly derived from an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`for_each` meta-argument](#for_each) performs a similar function to `count`, but lets you reference different values for each instance you create. Use the `count` argument when you want to create nearly identical instances. Use `for_each` when some instance arguments must have distinct values that can't be directly derived from an
```

> Integer index. You cannot use both a `count` and ` for_each` argument in the same `resource` or `module` block.

Reviewer: (to avoid mentioning ephemeral and data too)
```suggestion
Integer index. You cannot use both a `count` and ` for_each` argument in the same block.
```

### Tutorials

- [Manage similar resources with count](/terraform/tutorials/0-13/count) 

### Examples

- [Create multiple ephemeral resources](/terraform/language/block/ephemeral#create-multiple-ephemeral-resources)
- [Create multiple instances of module resources](/terraform/language/block/module#create-multiple-instances-of-module-resources) 
- [Create multiple instances of a resource](/terraform/language/block/resource#create-multiple-instances-of-a-resource) 

### Guidance 

 - [Create multiple instances](/terraform/language/data-sources#multiple-instances) when querying a data source

>  - [Create multiple instances](/terraform/language/modules#create-multiple-copies-of-modules) when calling modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [Create multiple instances](/terraform/language/modules/configuration#create-multiple-copies-of-modules) when calling modules
```

### References

- [`count` argument in `data` blocks](/terraform/language/block/data#count) 
- [`count` argument in `ephemeral` blocks](/terraform/language/block/ephemeral#count)
- [`count` argument in `module` blocks](/terraform/language/block/module#count)
- [`count` argument in `resource` block ](/terraform/language/block/resource#count)

## `for_each`

> By default, a Terraform configures one infrastructure object for each `resource` block. Terraform also creates single instances of a module from per `module` block. You can add the `for_each` block to your `resource` and `module` blocks to create and manage several similar objects, such as a fixed pool of compute instances, without writing a separate block for each instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Terraform configures one infrastructure object for each `resource`, `module`, and `ephemeral` block. You can add the `for_each` block to your `resource`, `data`, `module`, and `ephemeral` blocks to create and manage several similar objects, such as a fixed pool of compute instances, without writing a separate block for each instance.
```

The `for_each` accepts a map or a set that resolves to string values, but you can specify pure functions, such as `toset()` and `tomap()`, to create a map or set of string key-value pairs. Each instance is associated with a distinct infrastructure object. Terraform creates, updates, or destroys each instance when applying changes to the configuration.

Whether iterating over the keys of a map or set of strings, all values must be known. 

### How to choose between `for_each` and `count`

The [`count` meta-argument](#count) performs a similar operation to `for_each`. Use `for_each` when some instance arguments must have distinct values that can't be directly derived from an
integer. Use the `count` argument when you want to create nearly identical instances. 

> You cannot use both a `count` and ` for_each` argument in the same `resource` or `module` block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot use both a `count` and ` for_each` argument in the same block.
```

### Tutorials

- [Manage similar resources with for each](/terraform/tutorials/configuration-language/for-each)

### Examples

- [Create multiple ephemeral resources](/terraform/language/block/ephemeral#create-multiple-ephemeral-resources)

> - [Import multiple existing resources](terraform/language/block/import#import-multiple-resources)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Import multiple existing resources](/terraform/language/block/import#import-multiple-resources)
```

- [Create multiple instances of module resources](/terraform/language/block/module#create-multiple-instances-of-module-resources) 
- [Create multiple instances of a resource](/terraform/language/block/resource#create-multiple-instances-of-a-resource) 

### Guidance 

- [Creat multiple instances](/terraform/language/data-sources#multiple-instances) when querying a data source

> - [Create multiple instances](/terraform/language/modules#create-multiple-copies-of-modules) when calling modules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Create multiple instances](/terraform/language/modules/configuration#create-multiple-copies-of-modules) when calling modules
```

### References

- [`for_each` argument in `data` blocks](/terraform/language/block/data#for_each) 
- [`for_each` argument in `ephemeral` blocks](/terraform/language/block/ephemeral#for_each)
- [`for_each` argument in `module` blocks](/terraform/language/block/module#for_each)
- [`for_each` argument in. `resource` blocks](/terraform/language/block/resource#for_each)

## `provider` 

> By default, Terraform determines the local name of the provider from the first word in the resource type and uses that provider's default configuration to create the resource. For example, the resource type `google_compute_instance` automatically uses the default configuration for the `google` provider .

Reviewer: Love the example, but make this more block-agnostic

The `provider` argument is distinct from the `provider` block, which contains provider configuration settings. Refer to [Providers](/terraform/language/providers) for more information about the `provider` block.

### Examples

- [Specify an alternate provider configuration](/terraform/language/block/data#select-an-alternate-provider-configuration) for a data source
- [Specify an alternate provider configuration](/terraform/language/block/ephemeral#use-alternate-provider-configurations) for an ephemeral resource
- [Select an alternate provider configuration](/terraform/language/block/import#select-an-alternate-provider-configuration) for imported resources
- [Select a provider without a default configuration](/terraform/language/block/provider#provider-without-a-default-configuration) 
- [Select an alternative provider configuration](/terraform/language/block/resource#select-an-alternate-provider-configuration) for resources

### Guidance

- [Providers](/terraform/language/providers)

> - [Select an alternate provider configuration](/terraform/language/data-sources#alternate-provider-configurations) when querying a data source

Reviewer: I feel like maybe we should just have the provider page here? Since the data source example is above?

### References

- [`provider` argument in `check` blocks](/terraform/language/block/check#provider)
- [`provider` argument in `data` blocks](/terraform/language/block/data#provider) 
- [`provider` argument in `ephemeral` blocks](/terraform/language/block/ephemeral#provider)
- [`provider` argument in `import` block ](/terraform/language/block/import#provider)
- [`provider` argument in `resource` blocks](/terraform/language/block/resource#provider) 

## `providers`

> By default, child modules inherit the default provider configurations of their parent module, but you can specify an alternate provider configuration in the `module` block. The `providers` argument instructs Terraform to use the reference provider configuration to create the module resources. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, child modules inherit the default provider configurations of their parent module. You can specify an alternate provider configuration in the `module` block using the `providers` argument. The `providers` argument instructs Terraform to use the reference provider configuration to create the module resources. 
```

> Some modules may contain resources that require different providers. As a result, you can specify alternate configurations for each provider supported by the module. Refer to the module documentation for details about the providers it supports. 

Reviewer: Should the end of this be a link?

When you add a `providers` argument, child modules only have access to the provider configurations you specify. Use the `providers` argument in the following scenarios:

- To use an alternate provider configuration for a child module.
- To configure a module that requires multiple configurations of the same provider.

### Examples

- [Apply different provider configurations](/terraform/language/block/module#apply-different-provider-configurations-for-module-resources)  for module resources

### Guidance

> - [Providers](/terraform/language/providers)

Reviewer: I think this is more exact guidance:
```suggestion
- [Provider Aliases Within Modules](/terraform/language/modules/develop/providers#provider-aliases-within-modules)
```

### Reference

- [`providers` argument in `module` blocks](/terraform/language/block/module#providers)

> - [Providers module development documentation](/terraform/language/modules/develop/providers) 

Reviewer: This link feels like better guidance than reference?

## `lifecycle`

Terraform performs the following operations when you apply a configuration: 

> 1. Creates resources that exist in the configuration but are not associated with a real infrastructure object in the state.

Reviewer: "exist in" feels more confusing than "defined"
```suggestion
1. Creates resources defined in the configuration that are not associated with a real infrastructure object in the state.
```

> 1. Destroys resources that exist in the state but no longer exist in the configuration.

Reviewer: I feel like this is less confusing, but remove if you don't like! 
```suggestion
1. Destroys resources that exist in the state that the configuration no longer declares.
```

1. Updates in-place resources whose arguments have changed.

> 1. Destroys and re-create resources whose arguments have changed but that cannot be updated in-place due to remote API limitations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Destroys and re-create resources whose arguments have changed that Terraform cannot update in-place due to remote API limitations.
```

The `lifecycle` block accepts a rule that customizes how Terraform performs the lifecycle stages for each resource. Support for each `lifecycle` rule varies across Terraform configuration blocks. Refer to the reference documentation for the Terraform block you are adding to your configuration for details. The following table describes support for each `lifecycle` rule:

> You can apply the following rules to all `resource` blocks:

Reviewer: I have a feeling you meant to remove this and use the sentence above as a table intro
```suggestion
```

| `replace_triggered_by` | Terraform replaces the resource when any of the referenced resources or specified attributes change. | `resource` |
| `precondition` | Specifies a condition that Terraform evaluates before creating the resource. | `data`, `ephemeral`, `resource` |
| `postcondition` | Specifies a condition that Terraform evaluates after creating the resource. | `data`, `ephemeral`, `resource` |
| `destroy` | Set to `false` to remove a resource from state without destroying the actual infrastructure resource. You can only use this rule in the `removed` block. | `removed` |

### Tutorials

- [Manage resource lifecycle](/terraform/tutorials/state/resource-lifecycle)

### Examples

- [Apply custom conditions to data sources](/terraform/language/block/data#apply-custom-conditions) 
- [Ignore attribute changes](/terraform/language/block/resource#ignore-attribute-changes)
- [Specify triggers that replace resource](/terraform/language/block/resource#specify-triggers-that-replace-resources)
- [Apply custom conditions to resources](/terraform/language/block/resource#apply-custom-conditions)

### Guidance 

> - [Custom conditions for data sources](/terraform/language/data-sources#custom-condition-checks)

Reviewer: This feels like better guidance on pre and post conditions anyways:
```suggestion
- [Validate your configuration](/terraform/language/test-and-validate/validate#preconditions-and-postconditions)
```
